doc/source/installation.rst, before:

.. IntegronFinder - Detection of Integron in DNA sequences

.. _install:

************
Installation
************

.. _dependencies:

IntegronFinder dependencies
===========================

IntegronFinder is built with Python 2.7, and a few libraries are needed:

- Python 2.7
   - Pandas (>=0.18.0)
   - Numpy (>=1.9.1)
   - Biopython (>=1.65)
   - Matplotlib (>=1.4.3)

If you're not at ease with Python, see :ref:`here on how to install Python and
its libraries <python_install>`

In addition, IntegronFinder has external dependencies which have to be
installed prior the use of the program (click to access the corresponding
website).

- `HMMER 3.1b1`_
- `INFERNAL 1.1`_
- `Prodigal V2.6.2`_

After installation of these programs, they should be in your ``$PATH`` (*i.e.*
you can type in a terminal ``hmmsearch``, ``cmsearch``, or ``prodigal`` and a
``command not found`` shall not be displayed). If you have them installed
somewhere else, please refers to the parameters to give complete path to
IntegronFinder.

.. _installation:

Installation procedure
======================

Using pip (recommended)
-----------------------

1. Download the `latest release`_
2. In a shell (*e.g.* a terminal), start installation with::

    (sudo) python pip install integron_finder-x.x.tar.gz


Using setuptools
----------------

1. Download the `latest release`_
2. Uncompress it
3. In a shell (*e.g.* a terminal), go to the directory::

     cd integron_finder-x.x/

4. Start installation with::

      (sudo) python setup.py install


.. note::
  Super-user privileges (*i.e.*, ``sudo``) are necesserary if you want to
  install the program in the general file architecture.

.. note::
  If you do not have the privileges, or if you do not want to install
  IntegronFinder in the Python libraries of your system, you can install
  IntegronFinder in a virtual environment. See `virtualenv`_ or if you're using
  Canopy, see `Canopy CLI`_

.. warning::
  When installing a new version of IntegronFinder, do not forget to uninstall
  the previous version installed !

Uninstallation procedure
=========================

If you install integron_finder with pip
---------------------------------------

To uninstall integron_finder, run in the following command::

    (sudo) pip uninstall integron_finder

It will uninstall integron_finder executable
but You have to remove $PREFIX/share/integron_finder by hands.

If you install integron_finder with setup.py
--------------------------------------------

.. warning::
    There is no deinstallation procedure with setup.py

.. _python_install:

How to install Python
=====================

The purpose of this section is to provide some help about installing python
dependencies for IntegronFinder if you never installed any python package.

As IntegronFinder has not been test on Windows, we assume Unix-based operating system. For Windows users, the best would be to install a unix virtual machine on your computer.

Usually a python distribution is already installed on your machine. However, if you don't know how to install libraries, we recommend to re-install it from a distribution which contains pre-compiled libraries. There are two main distributions (click to access website):

- `Enthought Canopy`_
- `Anaconda`_

Download version 2.7 which correspond to your machine, then make sure that python from these distributions is the default one (you can possibly choose that in the preference and/or during installation).
They both come with all the needed packages but Biopython. If you have a **student email adress** from a university-delivering degree, you can request an academic licence to *Enthough Canopy* (see `Canopy for Academics`_) which will allow you to download additional packages including Biopython.

Otherwise, you will have to install Biopython manually. ``pip`` is recommended as a python packages installer. It works as follow::

    (sudo) pip install Biopython==1.65

To install version 1.65 of Biopython (recommended fro IntegronFinder).

.. note::
    If you don't manage to install all the packages, try googling the error, or don't hesisate to ask a question on `stackoverflow`_.

.. _`Enthought Canopy`: https://store.enthought.com/
.. _`Anaconda`: https://www.continuum.io/downloads
.. _`Canopy for Academics`: https://store.enthought.com/#canopy-academic
.. _`stackoverflow`: http://stackoverflow.com/

.. _`HMMER 3.1b1`: http://hmmer.janelia.org/
.. _`INFERNAL 1.1`: http://infernal.janelia.org/
.. _`Prodigal V2.6.2`: https://github.com/hyattpd/Prodigal/releases
.. _`latest release`: https://github.com/gem-pasteur/Integron_Finder/releases/latest
.. _`virtualenv`: http://www.virtualenv.org/
.. _`Canopy CLI`: http://docs.enthought.com/canopy/configure/canopy-cli.html#canopy-cli-venv

Commit message:

remove documentation on installation with  setuptools
as it does not work.
setuptools does not install data and script in canonical path
so the variables substitution does not work properly.

integron finder is abble to find its data in these circumstances

doc/source/installation.rst, after:

.. IntegronFinder - Detection of Integron in DNA sequences

.. _install:

************
Installation
************

.. _dependencies:

IntegronFinder dependencies
===========================

IntegronFinder is built with Python 2.7, and a few libraries are needed:

- Python 2.7
   - Pandas (>=0.18.0)
   - Numpy (>=1.9.1)
   - Biopython (>=1.65)
   - Matplotlib (>=1.4.3)

If you're not at ease with Python, see :ref:`here on how to install Python and
its libraries <python_install>`

In addition, IntegronFinder has external dependencies which have to be
installed prior the use of the program (click to access the corresponding
website).

- `HMMER 3.1b1`_
- `INFERNAL 1.1`_
- `Prodigal V2.6.2`_

After installation of these programs, they should be in your ``$PATH`` (*i.e.*
you can type in a terminal ``hmmsearch``, ``cmsearch``, or ``prodigal`` and a
``command not found`` shall not be displayed). If you have them installed
somewhere else, please refers to the parameters to give complete path to
IntegronFinder.

.. _installation:

Installation procedure
======================

1. Download the `latest release`_
2. In a shell (*e.g.* a terminal), start installation with::

    (sudo) python pip install integron_finder-x.x.tar.gz

.. note::
  Super-user privileges (*i.e.*, ``sudo``) are necesserary if you want to
  install the program in the general file architecture.

.. note::
  If you do not have the privileges, or if you do not want to install
  IntegronFinder in the Python libraries of your system, you can install
  IntegronFinder in a virtual environment. See `virtualenv`_ or if you're using
  Canopy, see `Canopy CLI`_

.. warning::
  When installing a new version of IntegronFinder, do not forget to uninstall
  the previous version installed !

.. warning::
    The installer does not work with pure setuptools procedure.


Uninstallation procedure
=========================

To uninstall integron_finder, run in the following command::

    (sudo) pip uninstall integron_finder

It will uninstall integron_finder executable

.. _python_install:

How to install Python
=====================

The purpose of this section is to provide some help about installing python
dependencies for IntegronFinder if you never installed any python package.

As IntegronFinder has not been test on Windows, we assume Unix-based operating system. For Windows users, the best would be to install a unix virtual machine on your computer.

Usually a python distribution is already installed on your machine. However, if you don't know how to install libraries, we recommend to re-install it from a distribution which contains pre-compiled libraries. There are two main distributions (click to access website):

- `Enthought Canopy`_
- `Anaconda`_

Download version 2.7 which correspond to your machine, then make sure that python from these distributions is the default one (you can possibly choose that in the preference and/or during installation).
They both come with all the needed packages but Biopython. If you have a **student email adress** from a university-delivering degree, you can request an academic licence to *Enthough Canopy* (see `Canopy for Academics`_) which will allow you to download additional packages including Biopython.

Otherwise, you will have to install Biopython manually. ``pip`` is recommended as a python packages installer. It works as follow::

    (sudo) pip install Biopython==1.65

To install version 1.65 of Biopython (recommended fro IntegronFinder).

.. note::
    If you don't manage to install all the packages, try googling the error, or don't hesisate to ask a question on `stackoverflow`_.

.. _`Enthought Canopy`: https://store.enthought.com/
.. _`Anaconda`: https://www.continuum.io/downloads
.. _`Canopy for Academics`: https://store.enthought.com/#canopy-academic
.. _`stackoverflow`: http://stackoverflow.com/

.. _`HMMER 3.1b1`: http://hmmer.janelia.org/
.. _`INFERNAL 1.1`: http://infernal.janelia.org/
.. _`Prodigal V2.6.2`: https://github.com/hyattpd/Prodigal/releases
.. _`latest release`: https://github.com/gem-pasteur/Integron_Finder/releases/latest
.. _`virtualenv`: http://www.virtualenv.org/
.. _`Canopy CLI`: http://docs.enthought.com/canopy/configure/canopy-cli.html#canopy-cli-venv
