doc/source/user_guide/tutorial.rst, before:

.. IntegronFinder - Detection of Integron in DNA sequences

.. _tutorial:

***********
Quick start
***********

We assume here that the program is :ref:`installed <install>`.

For everyone
============

.. note::
   The different options will be shown separately, but they can be used
   alltogether unless otherwise stated.

You can see all available options with::

    integron_finder -h

You can go to directory containing your input file, or specify the path to that
file and call::

    integron_finder mysequences.fst

or::

    integron_finder path/to/mysequences.fst

It will perform a search, and outputs the results in a directory called
``Results_Integron_Finder_mysequences``. Within this directory, you can find:

- mysequences.integrons
   A tabular file with the annotations of the different elements
- mysequences.summary
   A tabular file with the number of integrons (complete, In0, CALIN) found in each sequence of the input file.
- integron_finder.out
   corresponds to the standard output generated by IntegronFinder. The stdout can be silenced with ``--mute`` option.
- mysequences.gbk
   A GenBank file with the sequence annotated with the same annotations from
   the previous file.
   generated only if ``--gbk`` option is set.
- mysequences_X.pdf
   For each complete integron, a simple graphic of the region is depicted
   generated only if ``--pdf`` option is set
- other
   A folder containing outputs of the different step in the program. It includes
   notably the protein file in fasta (mysequences.prt).
   This directory is available only if option ``--keep-tmp`` is set.

.. _local_max:

Thorough local detection
------------------------

This option allows a much more sensitive search of *attC* sites. It will be slower if integrons are
found, but will be as fast if nothing is detected.

.. code-block:: bash

    integron_finder mysequences.fst --local-max

.. _func_annot:

Functional annotation
---------------------

This option allows to annotate cassettes given HMM profiles. As Resfams database
is distributed, to annotate antibiotic resistance genes, just use::

    integron_finder mysequences.fst --func-annot

IntegronFinder will look in the directory
``Integron_Finder-x.x/data/Functional_annotation`` and use all ``.hmm`` files
available to annotate. By default, there is only ``Resfams.hmm``, but one can
add any other HMM file here. Alternatively, if one wants to use a database which
is present elsewhere on the user's computer without copying it into that
directory, one can specify the following option ::

    integron_finder mysequences.fst --path_func_annot bank_hmm

where ``bank_hmm`` is a file containing one absolute path to a hmm file per
line, and you can comment out a line ::

  ~/Downloads/Integron_Finder-x.x/data/Functional_annotation/Resfams.hmm
  ~/Documents/Data/Pfam-A.hmm
  # ~/Documents/Data/Pfam-B.hmm

Here, annotation will be made using Pfam-A et Resfams, but not Pfam-B. If a
protein is hit by 2 different profiles, the one with the best e-value will be kept.

Search for promoter and AttI sites
----------------------------------

By default ``integron_finder`` look for *attC* sites and site-specific integron integrase,,
If you want to search for known promoters (integrase, Pc-int1 and Pc-int3) and AttI sites
in integrons elements you need to add the ``--promoter-attI`` option on the command line.

Keep intermediate results
-------------------------

Integrons finder needs some intermediate results, It includes notably the protein file in fasta (mysequences.prt).
A folder containing these outputs is generated for each replicon and have name ``other_<replicon_id>``
This directory is remove at the end. You can keep this directory to see analyse each ``integron_finder`` steps
with the option ``--keep-tmp``.


Verbosity of outputs
--------------------

You can control the verbosity of the outputs with the options ``-v`` or ``-q`` to
respectively increase or decrease the verbosity.
These options are cumulative ``-vv`` or ``-qqq``.

Topology
--------

By default, IntegronFinder assumes that

    * your replicon is considered as **circular** if there is **only one replicon** in the input file.
    * your replicons are considered as **linear** if there are **several replicons** in the input file.

However, you can change this default behavior and specify the default topology with options
``--circ`` or ``--lin``::

    integron_finder --lin mylinearsequence.fst
    integron_finder --circ mycircularsequence.fst


If you have multiple replicon in the input file with different topologies you can specify a topology for each
replicon by providing a topology file.
The syntax for the topology file is simple:

    * one topology by line
    * one line start by the seqid followed by 'circ' or 'lin' for circular or linear topologies.

example::

    seq_id_1 circ
    seq_id_2 lin

You can also mix the options ``--circ`` or ``--lin`` with option ``--topology-file``::

    integron_finder --circ --topology-file path/to/topofile mysequencess.fst

In the example above the default topology is set to *circular*.
The replicons specified in topofile supersede the default topology.


.. warning::
    However, if the replicon is smaller than ``4 x dt``
    (where ``dt`` is the distance threshold, so 4kb by default), the replicon is considered linear
    to avoid clustering problem.
    The topology used to searching integron is report in the *\*.integrons file*


For big data people
===================

.. _parallel:

Parallelization
---------------

The time limiting part are HMMER (search integrase) and INFERNAL (search *attC* sites).
So if you have to analyze one or few replicons the user can set the number of CPU used by HMMER and INFERNAL::

  integron_finder mysequences.fst --cpu 4

Default is 1.


If you want to deal with a fasta file with a lot of replicons (from 10 to more than thousand) we provide a workflow to parallelize the execution of the data.
This mean that we cut the data input into chunks (by default of one replicon) then execute
IntegronFinder in parallel on each replicon (the number of parallel tasks can be limited) then aggregate the results
in one global summary.
The workflow use the `nextflow <https://www.nextflow.io/>`_ framework and can be run on a single machine or a cluster.

First, you have to install `nextflow <https://www.nextflow.io/>`_ first, and  :ref:`integron_finder <install>`.
Then we provide 2 files (you need to download them from the IntegronFinder github repo.)

- `parallel_integron_finder.nf` which is the workflow itself in nextflow syntax
- `nextflow.config` which is a configuration file to execute the workflow.

The workflow file should not be modified. Whereas the profile must be adapted to the local architecture.

The file `nextflow.config` provide for profiles:
    - a standard profile for local use
    - a cluster profile
    - a standard profile using singularity container
    - a cluster profile using singularity container

.. warning::

    On Ubuntu Bionic Beaver (18.04) The default java is not suitable to run nextflow
    So you have to install another jvm

        sudo add-apt-repository ppa:webupd8team/java
        sudo apt-get update
        sudo apt-get install oracle-java8-installer

    for more details see: https://medium.com/coderscorner/installing-oracle-java-8-in-ubuntu-16-10-845507b13343

    so now install nextflow.
    If you have  capsule error like ::

        CAPSULE EXCEPTION: Error resolving dependencies. while processing attribute Allow-Snapshots: false (for stack trace, run with -Dcapsule.log=verbose)
        Unable to initialize nextflow environment

    install nextflow (>=0.29.0) as follow (change the nextflow version with the last release) ::

        wget -O nextflow http://www.nextflow.io/releases/v0.30.2/nextflow-0.30.2-all
        chmod 777 nextflow

    for more details see: https://github.com/nextflow-io/nextflow/issues/770#issuecomment-400384617

How to get parallel_integron_finder
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The release contains the workflow `parallel_integron_finder.nf` and the `nextflow.config` at the top level of the archive
But If you use pip to install Integron_Finder you have not easily access to them.
But they can be downloaded or executed directly by using nextflow.

to download it ::

    nextflow pull gem-pasteur/Integron_Finder

to get the latest version or use *-r* option to specify a version::

    nextflow pull -r release_2.0 gem-pasteur/Integron_Finder

to see what you download ::

    nextflow see Integron_Finder

to execute it directly ::

    nextflow run gem-pasteur/Integron_Finder -profile standard --replicons all_coli.fst --circ



standard profile
""""""""""""""""

This profile is used if you want to parallelize IntegronFinder on your machine.
You can specify the number of tasks in parallel by setting the queueSize value ::

    standard {
            executor {
                name = 'local'
                queueSize = 7
            }
            process{
                executor = 'local'
                $integron_finder{
                    errorStrategy = 'ignore'
                    cpu=params.cpu
                }
            }
     }

If you installed IntegronFinder with singularity, just uncomment the container line in the script, and set the proper path to the container.

All options available in non parallel version are also available for the parallel one.
A typical command line will be::

    ./parallel_integron_finder.nf -profile standard --replicons all_coli.fst --circ --out E_coli_all

.. note::
    The options starting with one dash are for nextflow workflow engine,
    whereas the options starting by two dashes are for integron_finder workflow.

.. note::
    Replicons will be considered linear by default (see above),
    here we use `--circ` to consider replicons circular.

If you execute this line, 2 directories will be created. One named `work` containing lot of subdirectories this for all jobs
launch by nextflow and a directory named `Results_Integron_Finder_E_coli_all` which contain the final results
as in non parallel version.


cluster profile
"""""""""""""""

The cluster profile is intented to work on a cluster managed by SLURM.
If You cluster is managed by an other drm change executor name by the right value
(see `nextflow supported cluster <https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/executor.html>`_ )

You can also managed

- The number of task in parallel with the `executor.queueSize` parameter (here 500).
  If you remove this line, the system will send in parallel as many jobs as there are replicons in your data set.
- The queue with `process.queue` parameter (here common,dedicated)
- and some options specific to your cluster management systems with `process.clusterOptions` parameter ::


    cluster {
        executor {
            name = 'slurm'
            queueSize = 500
        }

        process{
            executor = 'slurm'
            queue= 'common,dedicated'
            clusterOptions = '--qos=fast'
            $integron_finder{
                cpu=params.cpu
            }
        }
    }

To run the parallel version on cluster, for instance on a cluster managed by slurm,
I can launch the main nextflow process in one slot. The parallelization and the submission on the other slots
is made by nextflow itself.
Below a command line to run parallel_integron_finder and use 2 cpus per integron_finder task,
each integron_finder task can be executed on different machines, each integron_finder task claim 2 cpus to speed up
the attC sites or integrase search::

    sbatch --qos fast -p common nextflow run  parallel_integron_finder.nf -profile cluster --replicons all_coli.fst --cpu 2 --local-max --gbk --circ


The results will be the same as describe in local execution.

singualrity profiles
""""""""""""""""""""

If you use the singularity integron_finder image, use the profile *standard_singularity*.
With the command line below nextflow will download parallel_integron_finder from github and
download the integron_finder image from the singularity-hub so you haven't to install anything except
nextflow and singularity. ::

    nextflow run gem-pasteur/Integron_Finder -profile standard_singularity --replicons all_coli.fst --circ --out E_coli_all


You can also use the integron_finder singularity image on a cluster, for this use the profile *cluster_singularity*. ::

    sbatch --qos fast -p common nextflow run  gem-pasteur/Integron_Finder:2.0 -profile cluster_singualrity --replicons all_coli.fst --cpu 2 --local-max --gbk --circ

In the case of your cluster cannot reach the world wide web. you have to download the singularity image ::

    singularity pull --name Integron_Finder shub://gem-pasteur/integron_finder:2.0

the move the image on your cluster
modify the nextflow.config to point on the location of the image, and adapt the cluster options
(executor, queue, ...) to your architecture ::

     cluster_singularity {
            executor {
                name = 'slurm'
                queueSize = 500
            }

            process {
                container = /path/to/integron_finder
                queue = 'common,dedicated'
                clusterOptions = '--qos=fast'
                withName: integron_finder {
                    cpus = params.cpu
                }
            }
            singularity {
                enabled = true
                runOptions = '-B /pasteur'
                autoMounts = false
           }
        }
    }

then run it ::

    sbatch --qos fast -p common nextflow run  ./parallel_integron_finder.nf -profile cluster_singualrity --replicons all_coli.fst --cpu 2 --local-max --gbk --circ


If you want to have more details about the jobs execution you can add some options to generate report:

Execution report
""""""""""""""""
To enable the creation of this report add the ``-with-report`` command line option when
launching the pipeline execution. For example: ::

    nextflow run  ./parallel_integron_finder.nf -profile standard -with-report [file name] --replicons

It creates an HTML execution report: a single document which includes many useful metrics about
a workflow execution. For further details see https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html#execution-report

Trace report
""""""""""""

In order to create the execution trace file add the ``-with-trace`` command line option when launching the pipeline
execution. For example: ::

    nextflow run  ./parallel_integron_finder.nf -profile standard -with-trace --replicons

It creates an HTML timeline for all processes executed in your pipeline.
For further details see https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html#timeline-report

Timeline report
"""""""""""""""

To enable the creation of the timeline report add the ``-with-timeline``
command line option when launching the pipeline execution. For example: ::

    nextflow run  ./parallel_integron_finder.nf -profile standard -with-timeline [file name] --replicons ...

It creates an execution tracing file that contains some useful information about
each process executed in your pipeline script, including: submission time, start time, completion time,
cpu and memory used. For further details see https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html#trace-report





.. _advance:

For integron diggers
====================

.. _distance_threshold:

Clustering of elements
----------------------

*attC* sites are clustered together if they are on the same strand and if they
are less than 4 kb apart. To cluster an array of *attC* sites and an integron
integrase, they also must be less than 4 kb apart. This value has been
empirically estimated and is consistent with previous observations showing that
biggest gene cassettes are about 2 kb long. This value of 4 kb can be modify
though::

    integron_finder mysequences.fst --distance-thresh 10000

or, equivalently::

    integron_finder mysequences.fst -dt 10000

This sets the threshold for clustering to 10 kb.

.. note::
    The option ``--outdir`` allows you to chose the location of the Results folder (``Results_Integron_Finder_mysequences``).
    If this folder already exists, IntegronFinder will not re-run analyses already done, except functional annotation.
    It allows you to re-run rapidly IntegronFinder with a different ``--distance-thresh`` value.
    Functional annotation needs to re-run each time because depending on the aggregation parameters,
    the proteins associated with an integron might change.

Integrase
---------

We use two HMM profiles for the detection of the integron integrase.
One for tyrosine recombinase and one for a specific part of the integron integrase.
To be specific we use the intersection of both hits,
but one might want to use the union of both hits (and sees whether it exists cluster of attC sites nearby non integron-integrase...).
To do so, use::

    integron_finder mysequences.fst --union-integrases

*attC* evalue
-------------

The default evalue is 1. Sometimes, degenerated *attC* sites can have a evalue
above 1 and one may want to increase this value to have a better sensitivity.
::

    integron_finder mysequences.fst --evalue-attc 5

Here is a plot of how the sensitivity and false positive rate evolve as a function of the evalue:

|attC_evalue|


.. |attC_evalue| image:: /_static/evalue_attC.*
      :align: middle
      :width: 400px
      :alt: attC evalue


Palindromes
-----------

*attC* sites are more or less palindromic sequences, and sometimes, a single
*attC* site can be detected on the 2 strands. By default, the one with the
highest evalue is discarded, but you can choose to keep them with the following
option::

    integron_finder mysequences.fst --keep-palindromes

Commit message:

:fix: replace out by outdir in nextflow and doc
use same option for // version as in non parallel
to specify the name of the output --outdir

doc/source/user_guide/tutorial.rst, after:

.. IntegronFinder - Detection of Integron in DNA sequences

.. _tutorial:

***********
Quick start
***********

We assume here that the program is :ref:`installed <install>`.

For everyone
============

.. note::
   The different options will be shown separately, but they can be used
   alltogether unless otherwise stated.

You can see all available options with::

    integron_finder -h

You can go to directory containing your input file, or specify the path to that
file and call::

    integron_finder mysequences.fst

or::

    integron_finder path/to/mysequences.fst

It will perform a search, and outputs the results in a directory called
``Results_Integron_Finder_mysequences``. Within this directory, you can find:

- mysequences.integrons
   A tabular file with the annotations of the different elements
- mysequences.summary
   A tabular file with the number of integrons (complete, In0, CALIN) found in each sequence of the input file.
- integron_finder.out
   corresponds to the standard output generated by IntegronFinder. The stdout can be silenced with ``--mute`` option.
- mysequences.gbk
   A GenBank file with the sequence annotated with the same annotations from
   the previous file.
   generated only if ``--gbk`` option is set.
- mysequences_X.pdf
   For each complete integron, a simple graphic of the region is depicted
   generated only if ``--pdf`` option is set
- other
   A folder containing outputs of the different step in the program. It includes
   notably the protein file in fasta (mysequences.prt).
   This directory is available only if option ``--keep-tmp`` is set.

.. _local_max:

Thorough local detection
------------------------

This option allows a much more sensitive search of *attC* sites. It will be slower if integrons are
found, but will be as fast if nothing is detected.

.. code-block:: bash

    integron_finder mysequences.fst --local-max

.. _func_annot:

Functional annotation
---------------------

This option allows to annotate cassettes given HMM profiles. As Resfams database
is distributed, to annotate antibiotic resistance genes, just use::

    integron_finder mysequences.fst --func-annot

IntegronFinder will look in the directory
``Integron_Finder-x.x/data/Functional_annotation`` and use all ``.hmm`` files
available to annotate. By default, there is only ``Resfams.hmm``, but one can
add any other HMM file here. Alternatively, if one wants to use a database which
is present elsewhere on the user's computer without copying it into that
directory, one can specify the following option ::

    integron_finder mysequences.fst --path_func_annot bank_hmm

where ``bank_hmm`` is a file containing one absolute path to a hmm file per
line, and you can comment out a line ::

  ~/Downloads/Integron_Finder-x.x/data/Functional_annotation/Resfams.hmm
  ~/Documents/Data/Pfam-A.hmm
  # ~/Documents/Data/Pfam-B.hmm

Here, annotation will be made using Pfam-A et Resfams, but not Pfam-B. If a
protein is hit by 2 different profiles, the one with the best e-value will be kept.

Search for promoter and AttI sites
----------------------------------

By default ``integron_finder`` look for *attC* sites and site-specific integron integrase,,
If you want to search for known promoters (integrase, Pc-int1 and Pc-int3) and AttI sites
in integrons elements you need to add the ``--promoter-attI`` option on the command line.

Keep intermediate results
-------------------------

Integrons finder needs some intermediate results, It includes notably the protein file in fasta (mysequences.prt).
A folder containing these outputs is generated for each replicon and have name ``other_<replicon_id>``
This directory is remove at the end. You can keep this directory to see analyse each ``integron_finder`` steps
with the option ``--keep-tmp``.


Verbosity of outputs
--------------------

You can control the verbosity of the outputs with the options ``-v`` or ``-q`` to
respectively increase or decrease the verbosity.
These options are cumulative ``-vv`` or ``-qqq``.

Topology
--------

By default, IntegronFinder assumes that

    * your replicon is considered as **circular** if there is **only one replicon** in the input file.
    * your replicons are considered as **linear** if there are **several replicons** in the input file.

However, you can change this default behavior and specify the default topology with options
``--circ`` or ``--lin``::

    integron_finder --lin mylinearsequence.fst
    integron_finder --circ mycircularsequence.fst


If you have multiple replicon in the input file with different topologies you can specify a topology for each
replicon by providing a topology file.
The syntax for the topology file is simple:

    * one topology by line
    * one line start by the seqid followed by 'circ' or 'lin' for circular or linear topologies.

example::

    seq_id_1 circ
    seq_id_2 lin

You can also mix the options ``--circ`` or ``--lin`` with option ``--topology-file``::

    integron_finder --circ --topology-file path/to/topofile mysequencess.fst

In the example above the default topology is set to *circular*.
The replicons specified in topofile supersede the default topology.


.. warning::
    However, if the replicon is smaller than ``4 x dt``
    (where ``dt`` is the distance threshold, so 4kb by default), the replicon is considered linear
    to avoid clustering problem.
    The topology used to searching integron is report in the *\*.integrons file*


For big data people
===================

.. _parallel:

Parallelization
---------------

The time limiting part are HMMER (search integrase) and INFERNAL (search *attC* sites).
So if you have to analyze one or few replicons the user can set the number of CPU used by HMMER and INFERNAL::

  integron_finder mysequences.fst --cpu 4

Default is 1.


If you want to deal with a fasta file with a lot of replicons (from 10 to more than thousand) we provide a workflow to parallelize the execution of the data.
This mean that we cut the data input into chunks (by default of one replicon) then execute
IntegronFinder in parallel on each replicon (the number of parallel tasks can be limited) then aggregate the results
in one global summary.
The workflow use the `nextflow <https://www.nextflow.io/>`_ framework and can be run on a single machine or a cluster.

First, you have to install `nextflow <https://www.nextflow.io/>`_ first, and  :ref:`integron_finder <install>`.
Then we provide 2 files (you need to download them from the IntegronFinder github repo.)

- `parallel_integron_finder.nf` which is the workflow itself in nextflow syntax
- `nextflow.config` which is a configuration file to execute the workflow.

The workflow file should not be modified. Whereas the profile must be adapted to the local architecture.

The file `nextflow.config` provide for profiles:
    - a standard profile for local use
    - a cluster profile
    - a standard profile using singularity container
    - a cluster profile using singularity container

.. warning::

    On Ubuntu Bionic Beaver (18.04) The default java is not suitable to run nextflow
    So you have to install another jvm

        sudo add-apt-repository ppa:webupd8team/java
        sudo apt-get update
        sudo apt-get install oracle-java8-installer

    for more details see: https://medium.com/coderscorner/installing-oracle-java-8-in-ubuntu-16-10-845507b13343

    so now install nextflow.
    If you have  capsule error like ::

        CAPSULE EXCEPTION: Error resolving dependencies. while processing attribute Allow-Snapshots: false (for stack trace, run with -Dcapsule.log=verbose)
        Unable to initialize nextflow environment

    install nextflow (>=0.29.0) as follow (change the nextflow version with the last release) ::

        wget -O nextflow http://www.nextflow.io/releases/v0.30.2/nextflow-0.30.2-all
        chmod 777 nextflow

    for more details see: https://github.com/nextflow-io/nextflow/issues/770#issuecomment-400384617

How to get parallel_integron_finder
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The release contains the workflow `parallel_integron_finder.nf` and the `nextflow.config` at the top level of the archive
But If you use pip to install Integron_Finder you have not easily access to them.
But they can be downloaded or executed directly by using nextflow.

to download it ::

    nextflow pull gem-pasteur/Integron_Finder

to get the latest version or use *-r*    option to specify a version ::

    nextflow pull -r release_2.0 gem-pasteur/Integron_Finder

to see what you download ::

    nextflow see Integron_Finder

to execute it directly ::

    nextflow run gem-pasteur/Integron_Finder -profile standard --replicons all_coli.fst --circ

or

    nextflow run -r release_2.0 gem-pasteur/Integron_Finder -profile standard --replicons all_coli.fst --circ


standard profile
""""""""""""""""

This profile is used if you want to parallelize IntegronFinder on your machine.
You can specify the number of tasks in parallel by setting the queueSize value ::

    standard {
            executor {
                name = 'local'
                queueSize = 7
            }
            process{
                executor = 'local'
                $integron_finder{
                    errorStrategy = 'ignore'
                    cpu=params.cpu
                }
            }
     }

If you installed IntegronFinder with singularity, just uncomment the container line in the script, and set the proper path to the container.

All options available in non parallel version are also available for the parallel one.
except the `--replicons` option which is specific to the paralleized version.
`--replicons` allow to specify the path of a file containing the replicons.

.. note::
    Joker as '*' can be used to analysed several files at once.
    But **do not forget** to protect the wild card from the shell
    for instance by enclosing your pattern with simple quote.

.. warning::
    If you specify several files as input, the option `--outdir` is not allowed.


A typical command line will be::

    ./parallel_integron_finder.nf -profile standard --replicons all_coli.fst --circ --outdir E_coli_all

or ::

    ./parallel_integron_finder.nf -profile standard --replicons 'replicons_dir/*.fst' --circ --outdir E_coli_all

.. note::
    The options starting with one dash are for nextflow workflow engine,
    whereas the options starting by two dashes are for integron_finder workflow.

.. note::
    Replicons will be considered linear by default (see above),
    here we use `--circ` to consider replicons circular.

If you execute this line, 2 kinds of directories will be created.

    * One named `work` containing lot of subdirectories this for all jobs
      launch by nextflow
    * directories named `Results_Integron_Finder_XXX` where XXX is the name of the replicon file.
      So, one directory per replicon file will be created. These directories contain the final results
      as in non parallel version.


cluster profile
"""""""""""""""

The cluster profile is intended to work on a cluster managed by SLURM.
If You cluster is managed by an other drm change executor name by the right value
(see `nextflow supported cluster <https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/executor.html>`_ )

You can also managed

- The number of task in parallel with the `executor.queueSize` parameter (here 500).
  If you remove this line, the system will send in parallel as many jobs as there are replicons in your data set.
- The queue with `process.queue` parameter (here common,dedicated)
- and some options specific to your cluster management systems with `process.clusterOptions` parameter ::


    cluster {
        executor {
            name = 'slurm'
            queueSize = 500
        }

        process{
            executor = 'slurm'
            queue= 'common,dedicated'
            clusterOptions = '--qos=fast'
            $integron_finder{
                cpu=params.cpu
            }
        }
    }

To run the parallel version on cluster, for instance on a cluster managed by slurm,
I can launch the main nextflow process in one slot. The parallelization and the submission on the other slots
is made by nextflow itself.
Below a command line to run parallel_integron_finder and use 2 cpus per integron_finder task,
each integron_finder task can be executed on different machines, each integron_finder task claim 2 cpus to speed up
the attC sites or integrase search::

    sbatch --qos fast -p common nextflow run  parallel_integron_finder.nf -profile cluster --replicons all_coli.fst --cpu 2 --local-max --gbk --circ


The results will be the same as describe in local execution.

singualrity profiles
""""""""""""""""""""

If you use the singularity integron_finder image, use the profile *standard_singularity*.
With the command line below nextflow will download parallel_integron_finder from github and
download the integron_finder image from the singularity-hub so you haven't to install anything except
nextflow and singularity. ::

    nextflow run gem-pasteur/Integron_Finder -profile standard_singularity --replicons all_coli.fst --circ --outdir E_coli_all


You can also use the integron_finder singularity image on a cluster, for this use the profile *cluster_singularity*. ::

    sbatch --qos fast -p common nextflow run  gem-pasteur/Integron_Finder:2.0 -profile cluster_singualrity --replicons all_coli.fst --cpu 2 --local-max --gbk --circ

In the case of your cluster cannot reach the world wide web. you have to download the singularity image ::

    singularity pull --name Integron_Finder shub://gem-pasteur/integron_finder:2.0

the move the image on your cluster
modify the nextflow.config to point on the location of the image, and adapt the cluster options
(executor, queue, ...) to your architecture ::

     cluster_singularity {
            executor {
                name = 'slurm'
                queueSize = 500
            }

            process {
                container = /path/to/integron_finder
                queue = 'common,dedicated'
                clusterOptions = '--qos=fast'
                withName: integron_finder {
                    cpus = params.cpu
                }
            }
            singularity {
                enabled = true
                runOptions = '-B /pasteur'
                autoMounts = false
           }
        }
    }

then run it ::

    sbatch --qos fast -p common nextflow run  ./parallel_integron_finder.nf -profile cluster_singualrity --replicons all_coli.fst --cpu 2 --local-max --gbk --circ


If you want to have more details about the jobs execution you can add some options to generate report:

Execution report
""""""""""""""""
To enable the creation of this report add the ``-with-report`` command line option when
launching the pipeline execution. For example: ::

    nextflow run  ./parallel_integron_finder.nf -profile standard -with-report [file name] --replicons

It creates an HTML execution report: a single document which includes many useful metrics about
a workflow execution. For further details see https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html#execution-report

Trace report
""""""""""""

In order to create the execution trace file add the ``-with-trace`` command line option when launching the pipeline
execution. For example: ::

    nextflow run  ./parallel_integron_finder.nf -profile standard -with-trace --replicons

It creates an HTML timeline for all processes executed in your pipeline.
For further details see https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html#timeline-report

Timeline report
"""""""""""""""

To enable the creation of the timeline report add the ``-with-timeline``
command line option when launching the pipeline execution. For example: ::

    nextflow run  ./parallel_integron_finder.nf -profile standard -with-timeline [file name] --replicons ...

It creates an execution tracing file that contains some useful information about
each process executed in your pipeline script, including: submission time, start time, completion time,
cpu and memory used. For further details see https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html#trace-report





.. _advance:

For integron diggers
====================

.. _distance_threshold:

Clustering of elements
----------------------

*attC* sites are clustered together if they are on the same strand and if they
are less than 4 kb apart. To cluster an array of *attC* sites and an integron
integrase, they also must be less than 4 kb apart. This value has been
empirically estimated and is consistent with previous observations showing that
biggest gene cassettes are about 2 kb long. This value of 4 kb can be modify
though::

    integron_finder mysequences.fst --distance-thresh 10000

or, equivalently::

    integron_finder mysequences.fst -dt 10000

This sets the threshold for clustering to 10 kb.

.. note::
    The option ``--outdir`` allows you to chose the location of the Results folder (``Results_Integron_Finder_mysequences``).
    If this folder already exists, IntegronFinder will not re-run analyses already done, except functional annotation.
    It allows you to re-run rapidly IntegronFinder with a different ``--distance-thresh`` value.
    Functional annotation needs to re-run each time because depending on the aggregation parameters,
    the proteins associated with an integron might change.

Integrase
---------

We use two HMM profiles for the detection of the integron integrase.
One for tyrosine recombinase and one for a specific part of the integron integrase.
To be specific we use the intersection of both hits,
but one might want to use the union of both hits (and sees whether it exists cluster of attC sites nearby non integron-integrase...).
To do so, use::

    integron_finder mysequences.fst --union-integrases

*attC* evalue
-------------

The default evalue is 1. Sometimes, degenerated *attC* sites can have a evalue
above 1 and one may want to increase this value to have a better sensitivity.
::

    integron_finder mysequences.fst --evalue-attc 5

Here is a plot of how the sensitivity and false positive rate evolve as a function of the evalue:

|attC_evalue|


.. |attC_evalue| image:: /_static/evalue_attC.*
      :align: middle
      :width: 400px
      :alt: attC evalue


Palindromes
-----------

*attC* sites are more or less palindromic sequences, and sometimes, a single
*attC* site can be detected on the 2 strands. By default, the one with the
highest evalue is discarded, but you can choose to keep them with the following
option::

    integron_finder mysequences.fst --keep-palindromes
